# Nullable

- Nullable types are a special type of value type that can represent all the values of its underlying type plus an additional null value.
- Value types cannot be null, but nullable types can be. In this case, the null value is 0.
- `Nullable<T> <name> = null;` is equivalent to `T? <name> = null;`.
  - Ex: `Nullable<bool> isTrue = null;` can be true, false, or null.
- Simplified syntax: `T?` is a shorthand for `Nullable<T>`.
  - Ex: `int?` is equivalent to `Nullable<int>`.
- We can assign null to a nullable type, but not to a non-nullable type.

## Null coalescing operator (??)

- The null coalescing operator (??) is used to provide a default value when a nullable type is null.
- `<nullableType> ?? <defaultValue>` returns the value of the nullable type if it is not null; otherwise, it returns the default value.
  - Ex: `int? x = null; int y = x ?? 0;` assigns 0 to y if x is null, otherwise assigns the value of x.

## Readonly properties

- `HasValue` is a property of the `Nullable<T>` type that indicates whether the nullable type has a value or not.
- `Value` is a property of the `Nullable<T>` type that returns the value of the nullable type if it has a value; otherwise, it throws an exception.
  - Ex: `int? x = null; int y = x.Value;` will throw an exception because x does not have a value.

# Nullable reference types

- If a reference type doesn't have a reference on the heap memory, it is null.
  - It also occurs when a reference type is not initialized.
- Nullable reference types are a feature in C# that allows you to specify whether a reference type can be null or not.
  - It's a warning system that helps you avoid null reference exceptions at runtime.
- To enable nullable reference types, you can use the `#nullable enable` directive at the beginning of your code file or project.
  - It's not recommended to disable it, as it can lead to null reference exceptions.
- You can use the `?` operator to indicate that a reference type can be null.
  - Ex: `string? name = null;` indicates that the name variable can be null.
- You can use the `!` operator to indicate that a reference type cannot be null.
  - Ex: `string name = null!;` indicates that the name variable cannot be null, even though it is assigned a null value.
