# TaskCancellation

- On .NET, tasks can be cancelled using a `CancellationToken`.
- A `CancellationToken` is a lightweight struct that can be passed to tasks to signal that they should be cancelled.

## Types of Cancellation

- **CancellationTokenSource**: It is the class used to create a `CancellationToken` and to signal cancellation to all copies of the token.
- **CancellationToken**: It is the struct that represents the cancellation request. It propagates the cancellation request to the tasks that are using it.
  - The listeners monitor the value of the property `IsCancellationRequested` by polling, callbacks, or events.
- **OperationCanceledException**: It is thrown when a task is cancelled. It is a special exception that indicates that the operation was cancelled, not that an error occurred.

## Implementing Cancellation

- To implement cancellation in a task, you need to:
  1. Create a `CancellationTokenSource`, that manages and sends the cancellation notification to the individual tokens.
  2. Pass the `CancellationToken` from the `CancellationTokenSource` to each task or thread that supports cancellation.
  3. Provide a way to each task or chaining to respond to the cancellation request.
  4. Call `Cancel()` on the `CancellationTokenSource` to signal cancellation.

## Resources used on the class

- `Task.Run()`: queues a task to run on the ThreadPool and returns a `Task` or `Task<T>` representing that operation. Is used to run a method asynchronously in the background.
  - Example:
  ```csharp
  Task task = Task.Run(() => {
      Console.WriteLine("Running in the background...");
      for (int i = 0; i < 5; i++) {
          Console.WriteLine("Running iteration " + (i + 1));
          Task.Delay(1000).Wait(); // Simulate work
      }
      Console.WriteLine("Background task completed.");
  });
  ```
- Do not use top-level statements.
