# Collections

- `System.Collections` is a namespace that contains classes and interfaces that define various collections of objects, such as lists, queues, bit arrays, and dictionaries.
  - Most used: `ArrayList`, `Hashtable`, `Queue`, `Stack`, `SortedList`, `Dictionary`, `List<T>`, `LinkedList<T>`, `HashSet<T>`, `SortedSet<T>`, `ObservableCollection<T>`.
- `System.Collections.Generic` is a namespace that contains generic collections, which are type-safe and provide better performance than non-generic collections.
  - Most used: `List<T>`, `Dictionary<TKey, TValue>`, `HashSet<T>`, `Queue<T>`, `Stack<T>`, `LinkedList<T>`, `SortedList<TKey, TValue>`.

# Arrays

- An array is a collection of items stored at contiguous memory locations. It is a data structure that can store a fixed-size sequential collection of elements of the same type.
- One dimensional arrays are also called `vectors`. Two or more dimensional arrays are also called `matrices`.
- Used to store multiple values in a single variable instead of declaring separate variables for each value.
- Declared using the `[]` brackets. Ex: `int[] numbers = new int[5];` or `int[] numbers = new int[5] { 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 };` or `int[] numbers = { 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 };`.
- Syntax:

```csharp
int[] arrayName; // Declaration

arrayName = new int[size]; // Memory allocation

string[] names = new string[5] { "John", "Jane", "Doe", "Smith", "Alice" }; // Declaration, memory allocation and initialization
```

## Accessing Array Elements

- Array elements can be accessed using the index. The index starts from 0. Ex: `int firstElement = numbers[0];`.
- The length of an array can be obtained using the `Length` property. Ex: `int length = numbers.Length;`.
- To assign a value to an array element, use the index. Ex: `numbers[0] = 10;`.

## Using Arrays in Loops

- Using a `for` loop to iterate through an array:

```csharp
for (int i = 0; i < numbers.Length; i++)
{
    Console.WriteLine(numbers[i]);
}
```

- Using a `foreach` loop to iterate through an array:

```csharp
foreach (int number in numbers)
{
    Console.WriteLine(number);
}
```

- Using a `while` loop to iterate through an array:

```csharp
int i = 0;
while (i < numbers.Length)
{
    Console.WriteLine(numbers[i]);
    i++;
}
```
