# List<T>

- `List<T>` is a generic collection class in C# that provides a strongly typed list of objects that can be accessed by index. It is part of the System.Collections.Generic namespace and is implemented as a dynamic array, which means it can grow and shrink in size as needed.
  - Its type safety compared to non-generic collections like `ArrayList`, which can store elements of any type.
- `List<T>` is more efficient than `ArrayList` because it does not require boxing and unboxing for value types, as it stores elements of the specified type directly.
  - `Boxing` is the process of converting a value type to a reference type, and `unboxing` is the reverse process. Boxing and unboxing can introduce performance overhead, especially when dealing with large collections of value types.

## Characteristics

- `List<T>` is a dynamic array, meaning it can grow and shrink in size as needed.
- It provides methods for adding, removing, and searching for elements in the list.
- It supports random access to elements by index, allowing for efficient retrieval and modification of elements.

## Declaration

```csharp
// Count: 0, Capacity: 0
List<int> numbers; // Declaration
list = new List<int>(); // Initialization
List<int> numbers = new List<int>(); // Declaration and Initialization
var numbers = new List<int>(); // Implicitly typed variable
List<int> numbers = new(); // New initializer (C# 9.0 and later)
```

## Common Methods

- `Add(T item)`: Adds an item to the end of the list.
- `AddRange(IEnumerable<T> collection)`: Adds the elements of the specified collection to the end of the list.
- `Insert(int index, T item)`: Inserts an item at the specified index in the list.
- `InsertRange(int index, IEnumerable<T> collection)`: Inserts the elements of the specified collection at the specified index in the list.

- `list[index]`: Gets or sets the element at the specified index in the list.
  - Be careful when using the indexer, as it can throw an `ArgumentOutOfRangeException` if the index is out of range (Runtime error).
- `Clear()`: Removes all elements from the list.
- `Contains(T item)`: Determines whether the list contains a specific value.
- `Sort()`: Sorts the elements in the entire list using the default comparer.

- `Remove(T item)`: Removes the first occurrence of a specific object from the list.
- `RemoveAt(int index)`: Removes the element at the specified index in the list.
- `RemoveRange(int index, int count)`: Removes a range of elements from the list.

## Loops

- `foreach`: Iterates through each element in the list.

```csharp
foreach (var number in numbers)
{
    Console.WriteLine(number);
}
```

- `for`: Iterates through the list using an index.

```csharp
for (int i = 0; i < numbers.Count; i++)
{
    Console.WriteLine(numbers[i]);
}
```

## List vs ArrayList

- Has the same methods and properties as `ArrayList`, but is strongly typed.
- Value types are implicitly boxed when added to the ArrayList, which can lead to performance overhead.
  - And when retrieving the value type from the ArrayList, it is unboxed.
- On List<T>, there is no boxing and unboxing, as it stores the type directly.

## Find methods

- `Predicate<T>`: A delegate that represents a method that defines a set of criteria for the elements in the collection. It returns `true` if the object meets the criteria, otherwise `false`. Uses Lambda expressions to define the criteria.

  - Lambda expression syntax: `x => x % 2 == 0` (for example, to check if a number is even).
  - Ex: `numbers.Find(x => x % 2 == 0)`

- `Find(Predicate<T> match)`: Searches for an element that matches the conditions defined by the specified predicate and returns the first occurrence within the entire List<T>.
  - Ex:
- `FindAll(Predicate<T> match)`: Searches for all elements that match the conditions defined by the specified predicate and returns a List<T> containing all the matching elements.
- `FindLast(Predicate<T> match)`: Searches for the last element that matches the conditions defined by the specified predicate and returns the last occurrence within the entire List<T>.
- `FindIndex(Predicate<T> match)`: Searches for an element that matches the conditions defined by the specified predicate and returns the zero-based index of the first occurrence within the entire List<T>. Returns -1 if no match is found.
- `FindLastIndex(Predicate<T> match)`: Searches for the last element that matches the conditions defined by the specified predicate and returns the zero-based index of the last occurrence within the entire List<T>. Returns -1 if no match is found.

## LINQ Methods

- `Any()`: Determines whether any element of a sequence satisfies a condition.
- `FirstOrDefault()`: Returns the first element of a sequence that satisfies a specified condition or a default value if no such element is found.
- `OrderBy()`: Sorts the elements of a sequence in ascending order according to a key.
- `ToList()`: Converts the IEnumerable<T> to a List<T>.
- `Where()`: Filters a sequence of values based on a predicate.
