# Assignment Operators

- `=`: Assigns the value on the right to the variable on the left.
- `+=`: Adds the value on the right to the variable on the left and assigns the result to the variable on the left. Equivalent to `x = x + y;`.
- `-=`: Subtracts the value on the right from the variable on the left and assigns the result to the variable on the left. Equivalent to `x = x - y;`.
- `*=`: Multiplies the variable on the left by the value on the right and assigns the result to the variable on the left. Equivalent to `x = x * y;`.
- `/=`: Divides the variable on the left by the value on the right and assigns the result to the variable on the left. Equivalent to `x = x / y;`.
- `%=`: Takes the modulus of the variable on the left by the value on the right and assigns the result to the variable on the left. Equivalent to `x = x % y;`.
- `&=`: Performs a bitwise AND operation on the variable on the left with the value on the right and assigns the result to the variable on the left. Equivalent to `x = x & y;`.
- `|=`: Performs a bitwise OR operation on the variable on the left with the value on the right and assigns the result to the variable on the left. Equivalent to `x = x | y;`.
- `^=`: Performs a bitwise XOR operation on the variable on the left with the value on the right and assigns the result to the variable on the left. Equivalent to `x = x ^ y;`.
- `<<=`: Performs a left shift operation on the variable on the left by the number of bits specified by the value on the right and assigns the result to the variable on the left. Equivalent to `x = x << y;`.
- `>>=`: Performs a right shift operation on the variable on the left by the number of bits specified by the value on the right and assigns the result to the variable on the left. Equivalent to `x = x >> y;`.
- `??=`: Assigns the value on the right to the variable on the left only if the variable on the left is null. Equivalent to `x = x ?? y;`.

## Strings use cases

- `+=`: Concatenates the string on the right to the string on the left and assigns the result to the variable on the left. Equivalent to `x = x + y;`.
- `+`: Concatenates the string on the left with the string on the right and returns the result. Equivalent to `x + y;`.
