# Type Conversion

- C# is statically typed, meaning that the type of a variable is known at compile time.
  - After a variable is declared, its type cannot be changed. But we can convert between types.
  - Exception: `var` type, which is implicitly typed.

## Implicit Conversion

- Implicit conversion is done automatically by the compiler when converting from a smaller type to a larger type.
  - `int` to `long`, `float` to `double`, `char` to `int`, etc.
  - Ex:
  ```csharp
    int x = 10;
    long y = x; // Implicit conversion from int to long
    float z = 3.14f;
    double w = z; // Implicit conversion from float to double
  ```

## Explicit Conversion

- Explicit conversion is done manually by the programmer when converting from a larger type to a smaller type. Also known as `casting`.
  - `long` to `int`, `double` to `float`, `int` to `char`, etc.
  - Ex:
  ```csharp
    long x = 10000000000L;
    int y = (int)x; // Explicit conversion from long to int
    double z = 3.14;
    float w = (float)z; // Explicit conversion from double to float
  ```
  - Warnings:
    - Data loss: When converting from a larger type to a smaller type, data may be lost if the value is too large to fit in the smaller type.
      - Ex: `long x = 10000000000L; int y = (int)x;` will result in data loss because `x` is too large to fit in an `int`.
    - Invalid cast: When converting between incompatible types, an `InvalidCastException` may be thrown.
      - Ex: `string x = "Hello"; int y = (int)x;` will result in an `InvalidCastException` because `string` cannot be converted to `int`.
    - Overflow: When converting from a smaller type to a larger type, an `OverflowException` may be thrown if the value is too large to fit in the larger type.
      - Ex: `byte x = 255; int y = (int)x;` will result in an `OverflowException` because `x` is too large to fit in an `int`.

## Conversion Methods

- All Object types have a `ToString()` method that converts the object to a string representation.
  - Ex:
  ```csharp
    int x = 123;
    string y = x.ToString(); // Convert int to string
    double z = 3.14;
    string w = z.ToString(); // Convert double to string
  ```
- C# provides several methods for converting between types on the `Convert` class.
  - `ToBoolean()`, `ToByte()`, `ToChar()`, `ToDateTime()`, `ToDecimal()`, `ToDouble()`, `ToInt16()`, `ToInt32()`, `ToInt64()`, `ToSByte()`, `ToSingle()`, `ToString()`, `ToUInt16()`, `ToUInt32()`, `ToUInt64()`.
  - Ex:
  ```csharp
    string x = "123";
    int y = Convert.ToInt32(x); // Convert string to int
    double z = Convert.ToDouble(x); // Convert string to double
    string w = Convert.ToString(y); // Convert int to string
    DateTime dt = Convert.ToDateTime("2023-10-01"); // Convert string to DateTime
    decimal dec = Convert.ToDecimal("123.45"); // Convert string to decimal
  ```

## Var Type

- `var` is an implicitly typed variable that allows the compiler to infer the type based on the assigned value.
  - We cannot use `var` without an initializer. If not, error: `implicitly-typed local variable must be initialized`.
  - Also, isn't possible to initialize `var` with `null`.
  - Multiple variables cannot be declared with `var` in the same statement.
  - It is not possible to change the type of a `var` variable after it has been declared.
  - Ex:
  ```csharp
    var x = 10; // x is inferred as int
    var y = 3.14; // y is inferred as double
    var z = "Hello"; // z is inferred as string
  ```
- Considered "sugar syntax" for the compiler, as it is not a new type.
- Used to declare anonymous types, which are types that do not have a name and are defined at runtime.
- Used on for and foreach loops to iterate over collections without specifying the type of the collection.
- Used on using statements to import namespaces without specifying the type of the namespace.
