# Outputs

## Concatenation

- Concatenation is the process of joining two or more strings together.
  - The `+` operator is used to concatenate strings in C#.
  - Ex: `Console.WriteLine("Hello " + "World!");` outputs `Hello World!`.

## Placeholders

- Placeholders are special markers in a string that are replaced with actual values at runtime.
  - They are used to format strings dynamically.
  - In C#, placeholders are represented by curly braces `{}`.
  - Ex: `Console.WriteLine("Hello {0}, welcome!", name);` outputs `Hello John, welcome!` if `name` is `John`.

## String Interpolation

- String interpolation is a way to embed expressions inside string literals.
  - It allows you to create formatted strings more easily and readably.
  - In C#, string interpolation is done using the `$` symbol before the string literal.
  - Ex: `Console.WriteLine($"Hello {name}, welcome!");` outputs `Hello John, welcome!` if `name` is `John`.

## Scape Sequences

- Escape sequences are special character combinations that represent characters that are difficult to type directly in a string.
  - They start with a backslash `\` and are followed by a character.
  - Common escape sequences include:
    - `\n`: New line
    - `\t`: Tab
    - `\\`: Backslash
    - `\"`: Double quote
    - `\'`: Single quote
    - `\r`: Carriage return
    - `\u XXXX`: Unicode character (where `XXXX` is the Unicode code point in hexadecimal)
    - `\x XXXX`: Hexadecimal character (where `XXXX` is the hexadecimal code point)
  - Ex: `Console.WriteLine("Hello\nWorld!");` outputs:
    ```sh
    Hello
    World!
    ```
