# Methods

- Methods are functions that are associated with an object and can access its data.
- On C#, the `Main` method is the entry point of a C# program. It is where the program starts executing.

## Minimal Syntax

- The minimal syntax for a method is:

```csharp
class ClassName
{
  returnType MethodName(ParameterType parameterName)
  {
    // Method body
  }
}
```

- If there's only one instruction in the method body, you can omit the curly braces `{}` and write it in a single line:

```csharp
class ClassName
{
  returnType MethodName(ParameterType parameterName) => // Method body;
}
```

- On C#, all classes inherit from the `System.Object` class, which is the base class for all classes in C#.
  - So, all classes have can use its methods, like: `ToString()` (returns a string representation of the object), `Equals()` (compares two objects for equality), `GetHashCode()` (returns a hash code for the object), and `GetType()` (returns the type of the current instance).

## Parameters

- Parameters are used to pass data to methods.
- We pass parameters to methods by value or by reference.
- **By value**: A copy of the value is passed to the method. Changes made to the parameter inside the method do not affect the original value.

  - Example:

  ```csharp
  class Program
  {
      static void Main(string[] args)
      {
          int number = 5;
          Increment(number);
          Console.WriteLine(number); // Output: 5
      }

      static void Increment(int num)
      {
          num++;
      }
  }
  ```

- **By reference**: A reference to the original value is passed to the method. Changes made to the parameter inside the method affect the original value.

  - Example:

  ```csharp
  class Program
  {
      static void Main(string[] args)
      {
          int number = 5;
          Increment(ref number);
          Console.WriteLine(number); // Output: 6
      }

      static void Increment(ref int num)
      {
          num++;
      }
  }
  ```

## Access Modifiers

- Access modifiers are keywords that define the visibility of a class or its members (methods, properties, etc.).
- The most common access modifiers are:
  - `public`: The member is accessible from any code in the same assembly or another assembly that references it.
  - `private`: The member is accessible only within its own class.
  - `protected`: The member is accessible within its own class and by derived classes.
  - `internal`: The member is accessible only within its own assembly.
  - `protected internal`: The member is accessible within its own assembly and by derived classes.
- Assembly is a compiled code library used by .NET applications. It can be a `.dll` or `.exe` file.
- The default access modifier for a class is `internal`, and for a class member, it is `private`.
- You can use the `static` keyword to define a static method, which belongs to the class itself rather than to any specific object of the class.
  - Static methods can be called without creating an instance of the class.
