# LINQ

- **LINQ (Language Integrated Query)** is a powerful feature in C# that allows you to query collections in a more readable and concise way.
- Types of LINQ:
  - `LINQ to Objects`: Querying in-memory collections like arrays, lists, etc.
  - `LINQ to SQL`: Querying databases using SQL syntax.
  - `LINQ to XML`: Querying XML documents.
  - `LINQ to Entities`: Querying Entity Framework data models.
  - `LINQ to DataSet`: Querying DataSets in ADO.NET.
  - `LINQ to others`: IQueryable implementations for various data sources.

## Pros/Cons of LINQ

- Pros:
  - Improved readability and maintainability of code.
  - Strongly typed queries with compile-time checking.
  - Ability to work with different data sources using a consistent syntax.
  - Support for deferred execution, which can improve performance.
- Cons:
  - Potential performance overhead compared to traditional loops, especially for large datasets.
  - Limited support for complex queries in some LINQ providers.
  - Learning curve for developers unfamiliar with LINQ syntax and concepts.

## LINQ - API

- LINQ is implemented as a set of extension methods for the `IEnumerable<T>` and `IQueryable<T>` interfaces (found in the `System.Linq` namespace).
- `Enumerable` and `Queryable` are static classes that contain the LINQ extension methods.
  - That means you can call these methods on any object that implements `IEnumerable<T>` or `IQueryable<T>`.

## Syntax

- LINQ queries can be written in two main syntaxes:
  - Query Syntax: Similar to SQL, using keywords like `from`, `where`, `select`, etc.
  - Method Syntax: Using extension methods like `Where()`, `Select()`, etc.

### Query Syntax

```csharp
var results = from item in collection // collection is IEnumerable<T> or IQueryable<T>
              where item.Property == value // filtering condition
              select item; // projection
```

### Method Syntax

```csharp
var results = collection
                  .Where(item => item.Property == value) // filtering condition
                  .OrderBy(item => item.AnotherProperty) // sorting condition
                  .GroupBy(item => item.GroupingProperty) // grouping condition
                  .Select(item => item) // projection
                  .ToList(); // materialization
```

## IEnumerable<T>

- After using LINQ methods, the result is often an `IEnumerable<T>`, which represents a sequence of elements that can be enumerated.
- We can convert `IEnumerable<T>` to:
  - `List<T>` using `.ToList()`
  - `Array` using `.ToArray()`
  - `Dictionary<TKey, TValue>` using `.ToDictionary()`
  - `HashSet<T>` using `.ToHashSet()`
  - `IQueryable<T>` using `.AsQueryable()`
